---
layout: tier-item.liquid
---

One of the odder corners of cheap, endless YouTube content for kids takes place in the wholesome world of the Farming Simulator games. In Farming Simulator played straight, you run a farm, just, y'know, digitally: crops, machinery with frighteningly-large tires, more crops, low-resolution livestock, yet more crops, and endless menus and options for farmin' fun. Life is rural and normal.

But on YouTube, the world of Farming Simulator is a very different place. There is large farming equipment, but it is all now brightly-hued in vivid pink, green, blue, and any other color you can see a mile away. Instead of farming sunflowers and sorghum, you drive a front loader to haul giant rubber ducks or strawberries the size of small cars. Instead of fairly plain flat fields and landscapes, the terrain is constructed by a cruel hand of irregular undulating hills and valleys, meter-deep creeks that snake around for miles, and surreal aerial pathways -- these paths are constructed out of stuck-together railroad ties and rock clusters, among other copy-pasted objects of the game world -- that rise and fall in random locations. Hot air balloons hang in the sky indefinitely. Copyright infringement is common place, as you putter past the effigies of Pokemon characters and Lightning McQueen.

YouTube Farming Simulator is a very strange place. But this misshapen world also depicts work in the most barest sense: just simply _doing_, without experience, planning, execution, and any satisfaction that comes with it all. Watching someone doing capable work -- and the Farming Simulator games _au natural_ are detailed and complicated enough that the depiction is one of actual farm work -- is one of the great pleasures of _watching_. But staring at a pink tractor carry a giant blueberry across a skybridge into a far-off corner of the world may sound novel, but it is empty of nutrition. It leaves the brain as soon as the video ends.

--

OLD

One of the odder corners of cheap, endless YouTube content for kids takes place in the wholesome world of the Farming Simulator games. If you play Farming Simulator straight, you're in for a fine blue-collar buffet of crops, machinery with frighteningly-large tires, more crops, low-resolution livestock, yet more crops, and endless menus and options for yer farmin' fun. These games are _popular_ and, from what I can tell, well-made and respectful of their audience, especially in the weird current world of "simulator" games (which has extended to things like "Power Washer Simulator," "Supermarket Simulator," "House Flipper," and, unfortunately, "Police Shootout").

But in the world of young-kids' entertainment on YouTube, farmers in Farming Simulator aren't whistlin' along and cruising a giant harvester over fields of waving wheat, soybeans, and corn. Imagine, if you will, stepping into the wild world of YouTube Farming Simulator Garbage. Your character appears normal enough, the same standard avatar as you'd see in a real Farming Simulator session: denim overalls, white T-shirt, ball cap to shield your eyes while makin' hay. Functional boots. Very practical. We are farming, after all.

You look to the left. In the bright blue cloudless sky, several hot air balloons hover motionless; later you notice one or two balloons are also embedded in the ground. A large lake lays between you and a perfectly-arranged and -groomed row of giant poplars. The poplars intersect a hedgerow that extends infinitely into the distance, and a second look at the lake reveals it is about a foot deep, apparently so that any manner of farm machinery can wade across it. And finally, burying the lede, a pile of giant soccer balls waits nearby. You check the work manifest, and it turns out the day's job is transporting these giant and brightly-colored balls across the landscape. Damned be the fields of sorghum and soybeans to harvest: we have balls to haul.

You look to the right and spot the day's machinery for the job at hand: the handsome, dependable tractor. But! Instead of having a single tractor to do the hard work, at your disposal are _five_ tractors, each a different bright color. Each machine is housed within an elevated shed; each shed is topped with a different giant farm animal, rendered as a cartoon, arms spread wide as if asking for forgiveness, and colored to match the machine underneath. In front of the sheds are ramps and paths where the machines can exit; the paths are blocked by stacks of giant dice, massive bowling pins, and toy elephants. Just part of the job.

You look up. In the distance a road emerges from above the poplars, grasping into the sky and over the local burg before descending back to earth, equal parts a smart shortcut and certain death. The road is multicolored and distinctly not made of concrete and asphalt. Closer examination reveals the road to be constructed out of tightly-adhered clumps and clusters of logs and boulders, and if the construction material wasn't suspect enough, the road seemingly avoids straightaways, vying instead for guard-less hairpin turns and corkscrews. 

--
## OLD

Instead of a lovely little ranch just outside of a small-town locale, the setting is a landscape of XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX. A scattering of hot air balloons hang motionless in the sky, though some of them are sunk into the ground. The local flora consists of perfectly-groomed and oriented rows of poplars and hedgerows. Geologically-impossible mountain ranges lurk just outside the surrealist city limits.

Farmers might sometimes harvest crops — sunflowers are an inexplicable popular pick  — but more often good ol' boys and girls are hauling massive blue raspberries, soccer balls, multicolored Godzilla toys, or giant bees. Routes to jobs avoid the consistency and speed of surface streets: drivers instead bounce through XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX and across unsupported pathways in the sky made out of clusters of logs and boulders. Obstacles include stacks of giant colored dice, massive bowling pins, and towering toy elephants. 

During a day's work, unscheduled cameos from, er, _other properties_ are not uncommon. If a Fendt truck is hauling a giant pink lemon slice over a mile-high unsupported bridge made out of Lightning McQueens, or if a Man truck is pulling a trailer of an Among Us character under the visage of Chase from Paw Patrol, it's just another day on the farm. I'm sure the paperwork for these appearances is up-to-date.

Through it all, the same folksy bluegrass-y soundtrack plays on repeat. Or maybe these types of videos may not _actually_ all use the same soundtrack, but in my memory they certainly do. Or maybe each one plays a different soundtrack than the _same_ one I remember _all_ of them playing. It makes no difference in the end.

And, of course, these videos all stink. They rob games like Farming Simulator of the compelling joy of process, decision-making, and operational acumen, replacing it with XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX. I'm not someone who has ever seen someone playing a sports game and thought, _Why bother? Just do it for real._ [^1] But I might make an exception for someone watching these terrible Farming Simulator videos.

[^1]: While never being on the receiving end of this for sports games -- the last sports game I played was probably NHL 95, roughly 30 years ago -- I heard it few times during the musical-games era of _Guitar Hero_ and _Rock Band_, about 15 years ago.