---
layout: tier-item.liquid
---
The Kids Doing Things genre is another one of those rampant YouTube genres that, at best, is nearly pure white-sugar content. Like any of the make-believe YouTube genres I've made, there are manifold variations on the theme, and 99.9999% of them are bad.

Then there's [Kid Crew](https://www.youtube.com/@kidcrew), a genuinely funny, warm, adventurous, homespun example of the genre. A family of three play-works and work-plays in their comfortable backyard and the woods beyond. They utilize an enviable fleet of miniature electric vehicles to perform make-believe scenarios, such as putting out fires (which is composed of red, orange, and yellow tissue paper) and mounting a mom-rescue operation by a tiny creek within the trees. Interspersed between scenarios are "Here's How It Works!" segments performed by the dad, brief and tidy presentations on how, well, a thing works. And over the top of it all, the mom of the Kid Crew power trio brings us along with the antics as our cheerful, comfortable narrator.

After watching many Kid Crew videos — when you have kids interested in a thing, you tend to take in a *lot* of that thing, and the laser focus gets fixed on Kid Crew for a couple weeks at a time — you gradually understand that this is a blue-collar working family, with a farming business outside the margin of the videos. The backyard chicken coup is a big hint. Another big tell are the multiple demonstrations on the kid's electric vehicles being augmented with additional machinery — they add actual working street-sweeper brushes to one car! And a garbage-truck lifting arm to another! — and shows off the family's mechanical know-how and grit.

Kid Crew also has done a thing that no other show, even the peerless top-tier [Bluey](../bluey/), has accomplished. As a dad, Kid Crew altered my brain to consider how I can take on projects to improve our existing toys for better play, rather than think about buying new toys. For example, a while ago we got a used Peg Pegero Gator by divine fortune: We were walking around our subdivision, and a dad was getting rid of the little electric vehicle, it having collected dust in his garage up until through his kids' teenage years. Our son _adores_ "his" Gator, every inch of it, from the thin cracking plastic tries to the whining motors. And keeping the Gator running has become important for kids' and parents' sanity. Pre-Kid Crew, I might've gone as far as replacing _some_ parts, but I wouldn't consider going the distance for real failures. But seeing the Kid Crew modify, repair, manipulate, and _play_ with their vehicles has lit a real inspiration to go further in our own garage and yard, and see how we can make our treasured Gator even better. I can't credit that type of gift for any other show, YouTube or elsewhere.
